Welcome to creating a new scene in blender.
In this video you will learn how to create a new scene.
After we've done that we'll see a way of adding light rays in blender using the world volume settings.
There are other methods to doing this as well just to let you guys know.
However we're going to be using the world settings as it works best.
In our case with the building we're doing so let's hop straight on over in a blender.
Okay so we're over in blender at the moment and what we're about to do with the volume settings.
Well the it only works with spotlights.
So the environmental lighting and any other sun lamps or any other lamps that you've got in the scene
where she worked for volumetric lighting which is a bit of a shame but that's how blender is at the
moment.
Of course it gets updated regularly so more and more options may become available in the future.
So first of all what we're going to do is create a new scene because we're changing fundamentally how
this scene is going to be lit and some of the other settings we can go into a new scene.
And then we don't need to worry about it now.
You may have noticed seen at the top in the outliner or you may not have paid much attention to it and
just worked further down here each individual scene is self-contained it contains the render layers
the world and all of the mesh and other objects you have in your scene.
Now on top info ahead a bar there's a little plus button next to scene and at the moment.
This is not got a names.
I'm just going to call it Gothic church.
Now my scene is actually named.
And we can see it's named up here as well.
Offic church now it clicked the pause button here and it gives us a couple of options.
We can create a brand new scene so it'll be an empty seat in this we used to when we opened a brand
new blend.
Now this is useful if you're working on something else that's got something to do with your Gothic church
or your office etcetera that you're working on and you want to keep it all in one blender file.
We can copy the settings from one to another but with no objects as says Caesar we can link objects.
Now of course the good thing about linking the objects is it means that anything you change in the scene
one will go across to the second scene as well that were about to create a link object data so we can
do that as well.
And finally a full copy.
Now that will make a copy but changes will not go backwards and forwards.
And I am going to select all copy in this book.
In this case because I just want to work on it as is in isolation.
Essentially something go ahead and click for copy in its cool Gothic church as the one we used to this
by now and Im going to call this light rays because thats what it's all about.
So I've got this indoor scene here and we want to add light rays to it.
Now there are various ways of doing this.
But the best one is the world option so we go in the properties menu here to the world options itself
and under volume there's nothing currently selected So let's go to volume and where it says none we
can change that and it needs to save volume scatter.
So I'm going to go ahead and click on volume scatter.
Now a density of one is relatively thick and that's not going to produce very nice results.
Now before we go and start playing with these options I'm going to go into the render tab of the properties
and just scroll down.
And I'm going to change my light path's to direk light.
That's just going to make it nice and quick to render our case and now that that's been done I'm going
to go back to World properties and on the density I'm going to turn that down to about Point one for
the moment ask.
See how that goes and adjust it from there.
The other thing that we may want to do here just to speed up our volumetric calculations is under the
settings we can turn on some modernness and we can put a tick in that and that just makes it quicker
to render.
Now in this it could be rectangular.
The volume settings shift here the equal were is good for outdoors and the distance is for this or indoors
lit up by the sun outside and things like that so.
Or if you've got a mixture of things you can go for multiple important so I'm going to set that to distance.
Okay.
So now that I've got the scene roughly set up let's just move on over into rendered mode and we can
see that it's pretty dark.
And the reason why it's pretty dark is because the light in our scene comes from two places a sunlamp
that's placed in the scene and the environment.
None of which affect the lighting triangulations were in doing volume.
So what we need to do here is go over and find our lamp.
Or if you've not got one you're going to have to go and create one.
I have got a sunlamp in my scene so I can go ahead straightaway and change that from a sunlamp to a
spot lamp.
Now that's not going to be good enough just yet because what happens with the spot lamp is the light
falls off.
The further you get away from it.
So we need to make sure that that's constant.
So what we can do here is go into the node properties of that.
Particular lamps so we go to the node editor and we can see that there's a lamp out at the surface and
it's an admission which is great and the strength is currently at five.
If I put that 50 we might be able to see it's 500.
No it's too far away it's not actually reaching the church building itself at the moment.
So what we can do here is set this strength the light fall off the further away it is we can set that
to a constant value so acts more like the sun as it goes through the scene.
So going to add a node in here.
So we go to out and go to colour.
You see there's an option here like to fall off.
Of course if you know it contains fall off we can go to search and type in fall off.
And there it is.
So now we've got that we can line up for constant outputs of the light fall off with the strength and
then turn the strength up to three 50 400 something along those lines.
Now it doesn't seem to be affecting our scene at the moment.
There's a couple of things that we need to check.
I'm happy with everything as it set up here.
But what I don't know is where the lamp is and where it's pointing.
So that's quite important so I'm going to go into solid shaded mode.
Okay.
So the lamps over here and it's pointing into the building.
So that looks pretty good to me.
Quickly render that and see if it's lighting up the outside we can see here is getting through here.
Now I think that the light is actually being absorbed by the volumetric shading that we've got going
on in the environment.
So what I'm going to do here is still looking from the outside because that lamp is well it's well it's
not being isn't even lighting up the ground so that's no good.
Let's go ahead and go to the world properties here and scroll down the density here let's make it 10
times lower Let's go nought point nought one.
Aha.
That is much better.
Let's see what that looks like inside as well.
How that is looking much much better now.
Now it's still a bit dark in there and that's where we can use a couple of tricks to bring the light
levels up.
Now the moment because we've got the light paths on the render tab set a direct light there's not that
many bounces going on.
Certainly by changing that to limited global a nation for global illumination or just changing the settings
here.
So for instance increasing the number of diffused bounces the volumetric bounces as well will help here.
So what we can do here is literally just render this out and see what it looks like and then take a
base from there.
Again make sure that you've got a relatively low resolution because the volumetric calculations is going
to take a while to do.
Now of course this I don't know quite how it's going to look when it's finished.
It looks like we've got some rays coming in.
It's looking pretty good there.
Okay that is looking pretty good.
Now it's going to pause the render there and I'm going to switch to another render slots to perform
a change test but a not would diffuse back down to zero and go ahead and render that again.
Now this is going to be slightly quicker in its processing but it's going to have less bounces in the
scene.
Now that is a style choice of course if you want to add more realism with the different bounces but
this is going to end up much darker because light is not going to be bouncing off certain areas and
we can see already it's had a much in well it looks much more contrasty.
So that's with one bounce enabled so you've got some details where the light is not directly hitting.
And if we go to here we see that it's a much darker image but I think that's a bit more atmospheric
as well so there's a there's a kind of a toss up there between your style choice that you want to go
for that looks pretty good.
And of course with that it's time for a challenge.
I would like you to go ahead and add volumetric lighting so you may have to use s.p. you rendering for
this depending on your graphics card.
And depending on your version of blender as well.
So bear that in mind if you're if it's not working for you.
Create a new scene and then add some volumetric lighting to your new scene and see how that comes out.
Borzov video now and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
I'm going to hop back into my blend file now and just see if there's any optimizations that I want to
make and see if we can make this scene even better.
Okay so that's looking pretty good.
Obviously that's pixillated because of the amounts I've turned down the resolution I've put it at 25
percent of 10 ATP there.
Amber I quite like that dark atmosphere.
And I think I could if I could just bring that up just a little it would probably make a much better
impact on my scene.
So with that in mind I'm going to try.
Well let's scroll down here.
Let's try turning up the amounts of bounces that happen through the volumetrics of the light that's
coming in.
Let's see if turning that up adds to the ambience of the room I don't want it much lighter than it already
is.
Adding one to the use she made it too bright for me.
Let's go ahead and render that and see how it looks and obviously pick and who render slop before I
do so.
Otherwise I won't be able to compare one to the other.
Okay so this render here is coming up to the end of it.
And is it why it's different to the first one it's certainly lighter.
And that is adding a lot of definition here in the in the pillars in the columns that are there.
And I like that's that's all bringing that forward.
It has made this scene a little noisier.
Presumably because of those volumetrics.
So what I need to do here of course is render it at a much higher sample rate.
I'm happy with how that's looking at the moment so I'm going to render it now at I'm going to renderer
a higher resolution for a stance that's going to take longer to do and I'm going to render it.
I'm going to do the full screen render and then leave.
Five hundred might be a little high but I'm happy to wait.
So I'm going to go ahead hit render and I will see you guys back in a few moments.
Okay so here we go here's the final rendering is still a bit noisy but more and more samples will certainly
sort that out.
But this is looking pretty good it's got the right sort of definition in there.
I can see some detail in the dark areas which is awesome.
That's exactly what I wanted.
How did yours turn out.
I'd love to see them remember to share them with us so we can all relish in your wonderful creations.
Of course as always I will see you guys in the next lecture.